---
title: The Art of The Sciences
layout: post
---

“To me, mathematics, computer science and the arts are insanely related. They’re all creative expressions.” Being a computer related entrepreneur, Sebastian Thrun who is the name behind the quote above, definitely is no random Joe giving his opinion on the subject of creativity. He can be seen as an authority in this field as it takes a good amount of creativity to be the co-founder of Udacity: an online learning platform, as well as a host of other accomplishments that hangs on his vest of experience. That being said, where do I seem to be going with this rant on creativity? The point I am aiming at getting across is that the computer science discipline is a discipline that fosters creative expression. This is a fundamental principle I believe every computer science related personnel should hold strong to because, It is very easy to be caught up in all the logic and technicalities that comes together with this “science” discipline and miss the beauty of the art that is wonderfully interwoven into the fabrics of this discipline. Therefore I dare say that computer science can be said to be the art of sciences as it stands in quite a unique position amidst all the science disciplines. What is its uniqueness? It is very clear that the common sciences such as chemistry, biology and physics give explanations to some of the natural phenomena we experience but technology goes a step further by creatively using these explanations to better the conditions and experience of living as it proffers solutions to existing problems or prescriptions that enhance existing solutions. 
