---
title: Reflection on Ron Chernow’s Alexander Hamilton
layout: post
---

Reflection Paper on Ron Chernow’s Alexander Hamilton

## Theme
  One thing can be noted to be a theme that permeates this whole work by Ron Chernow; An individual’s behaviour, attitude, motivations, obsessions can in a lot of ways be affected by his or her history, but every individual has a choice on how he or she allows the events of his or her past to paint the present. Ron Chernow in this work narrating the life of the quintessential federalist Alexander Hamilton, points out how he refused to live in the shadow of his checkered history of illegitimacy and tried in almost every way he could to clean this seeming stain. Although this sometimes resulted in Hamilton responding in reactions brewing with paranoia and engaging in some morally flawed actions, it can be quite reasonably inferred from Ron Chernow’s perspective that this checkered history to a reasonable extent served as a motivation to Hamilton. Hence the thesis to this work by Ron Chernow can be said to be; Alexander Hamilton was a man of great ambition and great love for the United States, but was also a man greatly troubled by his checkered childhood history.
## Chernow's Sources
  In undertaking any work of history an author or researcher stands akin to paralyzed without the availability of sources. In a display of fine mastery, Ron Chernow blends with wonderful skill both primary and secondary sources. A great number of primary sources are used by Ron Chernow in this  work such as ledgers from Nevis and St.Croix, the Royal Danish American Gazette, numerous colonial papers, Hamilton’s undergraduate “Monitor” essays as well as his 1796 “Phocion” essays along with a handful of others. These show a great deal of pain staking, high attention to detail and trustworthy data research as Ron Chernow points out in his acknowledgements, his deliberateness in keeping silent on topics or stories about Hamilton lacking evidence or proper credible backing. Ron Chernow also does not deny himself the right of standing on the shoulder of giants as he makes use of secondary sources. Some of these secondary sources include already written works on Hamilton such as; Cooke’s Alexander Hamilton, Knott’s Alexander Hamilton, Ramsing’s Alexander Hamilton’s Birth and Parentage, Alexander Hamilton’s, The Law Practice of Alexander Hamilton: Documents and Commentary(who is a different person from the first Secretary of The Treasury of  The United States, Alexander Hamilton) along with a number of other works written on Alexander Hamilton. He also makes use of works on other personalities who are integral around the story of Alexander Hamilton such as Thomas Jefferson, George Clinton and Aaron Burr. Some of these include; The Anas of Thomas Jefferson by Franklin b. Sawvel, Burr, Hamilton, and Jefferson: A Study in Character by Kennedy Roger, George Clinton: Yeoman Politician of the New Republic by John P. Kaminski along with a host of others. These sources combined, showed a high degree of thoroughness and research work done by Ron Chernow in putting together this masterpiece.   
## Chernow's Thesis
  The first sentence in the first chapter of Ron Chernow’s work, go a long way in proving his a major point in his thesis; Hamilton’s checkered history. He starts by saying; “Alexander Hamilton claimed nevis in the British West Indies as his birth place, although no surviving record substantiate this”. This statement already begins to show the reader that the main character of this book is one who seems to have a history that is not so lucid but one that can be said to be complicated. In a tone that leaves a reader in a reader with sympathy Chernow brings to light the circumstances surrounding Hamilton’s birth and childhood. He sheds light on Hamilton’s mother’s tumultuous marriage to Johann Lavien, her running away, and her relationship with James Hamilton along with other unfortunate events in Hamilton’s childhood. He says; “Let us pause briefly to tally the grim catalog of disasters that had befallen these two boys between 1765 and 1769: their father had vanished, their mother had died, their cousin and supposed protector had committed bloody suicide and their aunt, uncle and grandmother had all died”. This list pointed by Chernow clearly supports the fact that Alexander Hamilton had a childhood that was really checkered. James Hamilton who was Hamilton’s father was the son of a Scottish laird. This seemed to be point Hamilton took pride in about his roots as he tried to soothe the sting of illegitimacy. 
 ## Perfectionist Ardor 
  Almost the whole if not all of Hamilton’s life as Chernow points out was spent trying to alienate himself from this checkered history. Being a person of keen intelligence, Hamilton handled at a very young age the job of being a clerk with a very applaudable form of expertise and also taught himself. Chernow states; “The young clerk aimed to be a man of letters”. He seemed to have a notion that someday being a well learned person will make up for his troubled childhood and “his humble berth and place him on a par with the most powerful men of his age”. Hamilton began writing and publishing poetry and this paved a way out of poverty for Hamilton. Taking note of his exceptional intelligence he was sponsored to go to college in New York possibly by Hugh Knox and other people who had taken note of his intelligence. It can be inferred that  Hamilton’s desire to live a life that was of a far higher standard than his childhood seemed to be a motivation for the “perfectionist ardor” in which he approached his daily activities. He also displayed this desire and goal of being estranged from his past in his choice of a wife, as he desired to have a marriage that was successful and stood far away from the marriage picture or scenery from which he had emerged.
  
  The perfectionist ardor of Alexander Hamilton is another evidence that points to as Ron Chernow stresses, an effort to be cut away from a checkered history. This expressed itself clearly in the way he expressed huge reverence for his reputation and vehemently defended it at the sight of any threat to it. In the words of Chernow; “If struck, he tended to hit back hard”. The first of these kind of reactions in the book is pointed out when He was criticised as someone who was not interested in the national interest of the country but instead motivated by self interest. He immediately demanded a retraction or a disclosure of the source and went as far as threatening that he could demand a duel. Underlying this accusation was the assumption that he was an not an American and could not be possibly motivated out of patriotism. This seemed to be an allusion that might have reminded Hamilton of the past he seemed to have successfully started shying away from, resulting in him reacting quickly in the manner in which he did. 
The display of quick defence of reputation by Hamilton, seemed to characterize Hamilton’s career which seemed to be quite also checkered with a number of controversies of which Chernow points out that he resorted to his pen as his defensive weapon. This points back to the earlier notion that his desire to be a man of words was out of a desire to escape the clutches of lower class  living. A major evidence that portrayed this attribute of Hamilton again was the publication of his affair with Maria Reynolds. In an attempt to maintain a spotless reputation which had taken him lot of effort to build from the struggles of St.Croix to the aristocratic like city of New York, he responded to accusations of adultery with pages of his confessions and his response. The notion of maintaining his reputation with his confession and response however was not a very successful mission. This habit of reputation defence eventually led to the duel with Aaron Burr that sadly eventually resulted in his death. Ron Chernow also successfully provided evidence that despite his troubled state of mind due to his past, Hamilton still had a deep love and a profound vision for a United America. This he expressed in his pushing for the establishment of a strong central government and his opening of the first National bank. He also stood as one of the not so many of the time abolitionists, and I think these facts pointed out by Ron Chernow evidenced that he was a man of loyalty to responsibility and to his country America, and who was passionate about seeing her blossom
## Who is Ron Chernow
Ron Chernow is a journalist, historian, biographer and writer from the United States of America. An alumni of prestigious universities such as Yale University, Cambridge and Pembroke College, he is a very experienced biographer as he has written on other notable names in American history such as George Washington and John D. Rockefeller. Ron Chernow also has been noted by government and academia to be a very credible writer, as he has in the past bagged a number of  awards one of which is; the Pulitzer Prize for Biography.
Ron Chernow did indeed prove his thesis masterfully and in a captivating manner. With a high amount of skill, he was able to portray Alexander as a man who was haunted by his troubled childhood for most of his life, and this troubling seemed to be a basis for a lot of things he did. He also successfully was able to still portray Hamilton as despite being troubled, as a man with a great dream and vision in mind for America. He was able to prove his thesis which is; Alexander Hamilton was a man of great ambition and great love for the United States, but was also a man greatly troubled by his checkered childhood history.
## Opinion
In my opinion I believe Ron Chernow, put together a wonderful, thorough, captivating, thought provoking and credible work on Alexander Hamilton. Hedid a great work in shedding a great deal of light on the life of the face on the ten dollar bill. He successfully answered this question by Aaron Burr in the song Alexander Hamilton; “How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a Scotsman, dropped in the middle of a forgotten spot in the Caribbean by providence impoverished, in squalor, grow up to be a hero and a scholar?”.  Ron Chernow points out that his keen intelligence, determination, ambitious character, and zeal coupled with a race against his tumultuous childhood played a role in answering how. Ron Chernow with great dexterity was able to draw out sympathy and admiration for this founding father in this book without trying to throw his moral blunders beneath the rug. This work by Ron Chernow is a great resource on American history and a great work of art.

